[Music]
ten reasons why it's hard for a smart
person to be happy
intelligent people are truly admirable
and we often look up to them as role
models but did you know that they're
usually the least happy individuals
among us why is that we're about to
figure that question out together but
before we start don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel and turn on
post notifications so that you'll always
be the first to see our new videos
number one they tend to overanalyze
things do you often find yourself
thinking deeply about the details of
your past well people with a high IQ
continuously analyze the events of their
lives while it might sound like a great
way to be really insightful over time
this actually exhausts them their
findings are often full of fear and
disappointment with the real dilemmas
constantly popping up in their heads
writer and therapist Robert IAB
recommends learning how to accept your
right to make mistakes recognizing them
and allowing others to make mistakes two
people are flawed and we shouldn't make
a big deal of it by criticizing or
gossiping you'll be much better off just
drawing conclusions and moving on number
two they're too demanding of themselves
and others smart people know exactly
what they want and how to get it they
tend to look at the world in an
idealistic way and it's difficult for
them to give up or even just lower their
expectations this prevents them from
getting real satisfaction from life and
feeling happy because the reality of the
world around them often just brings out
her disappointment there's a way to
fight it though in his book true
happiness Martin Seligman a psychologist
at the University of Pennsylvania
recommends a daily gratitude exercise
it's simple just think of events people
or things that make you feel grateful
it'll distract you from having negative
thoughts and help you focus on the
positive you can also try keeping a
diary and writing about the things
you're thankful for every single day
anytime you're feeling down just open it
and it'll put a smile on your face
number three they can't form warm and
friendly relationships everyone wants to
have the love and understanding that
comes with close relationships but it's
very difficult for intelligent people to
talk to someone openly since they're
often misunderstood they want to talk
about important and meaningful events
not frivolous small talk according to
scientists socializing for highly
intelligent people is often a more
painful experience than being alone and
don't even get me started on dating if
this all sounds familiar to you try to
reconsider the people around you and get
rid of the ones that drain you
emotionally find ways to make new
acquaintances whose company you
genuinely enjoy and appreciate family
members who sincerely love you according
to psychologist David G Myers this is
the best way to get rid of the feeling
of unhappiness number four they have
mental health issues countless studies
have confirmed that intellectuals often
suffer from mental health problems
scientists couldn't find a direct
correlation here but fact is fact the
habit of constant overanalyzing leads to
frequent reflections about life death
and the meaning of existence all this in
most cases leads to depression but don't
worry there's a solution to this problem
it's actually pretty simple to make an
effort to help others more often even
strangers it's been proven that people
who support others experience a sense of
inner peace much more often than those
who ignore other people's problems Plus
this is a great way to distract yourself
from the constant reflections and gloomy
thoughts it may help you find good
friends as well so go for it number five
they feel like they have to meet others
expectations it probably comes as no
surprise that intelligent people excel
academically that's great and all but
even this can lead to some psychological
issues you see big academic achievements
lead to even greater future expectations
from others this load often proves to be
a nun bear
mirdon especially for gifted children
who were deprived of a real childhood
early on well-known psychologist Mihai
cheeks sent me hi warns that excessive
self focus and anxiety about how we look
in the eyes of others prevent us from
living and having fun
he also advises us to treat learning and
working like a game get fully involved
in the process and try not to get stuck
on the result after all it's not the
destination but the journey that counts
number six they rarely make rational
decisions a recent study has shown that
in their daily life intellectuals make
just as many mistakes as everyone else
the researchers claim that people with
above average IQs make irrational
decisions are more prone to delusions
and rely on intuition scientist Igor
Grossman of the University of Waterloo
suggests that such people should talk
about their problems in the third-person
in order to emotionally distance
themselves this reduces bias and allows
them to reach the most logical
conclusions try this method out sometime
it'll help you look at your problems
from a different perspective
number seven they're not always
successful the assumption that every
smart person is successful couldn't be
more inaccurate in fact studies have
shown that 85% of financial well-being
depends on things such as individuality
and the ability to communicate and
negotiate no big brain or certain IQ
number is on that list Nobel
prize-winning psychologist Daniel
Kahneman found that people are more
willing to do business with someone they
like and trust even if they're offering
a more expensive product
what's more scientists say that
emotional moral and physical intellect
pay a much greater role in achieving
financial success if you are not sure
whether or not you have these skills
learn to develop them yourself emotional
intelligence is expressed by how well
you can understand your feelings and the
feelings of others moral intelligence is
how you feel about your obligations and
your honesty the indicators of physical
intelligence are how you take care of
your body and
appearance remember that having smarts
might not always be enough so work on
other aspects of yourself if you want to
be truly happy and successful number
eight they're more stressed out Canadian
researchers have found that highly
intelligent people perceive simple
everyday problems much more strongly
they have a habit of thinking over and
over again about what's happening and if
it's something negative it only leads to
chronic stress and anxiety again this is
where psychologist Mihai
csikszentmihalyi's advice of learning
how to temporarily disable negative
feelings when we encounter a lot of
problems comes in handy that way we can
calmly analyze a difficult situation and
figure out how to get out of it if you
ever notice yourself falling into this
negative spiral stop yourself remember
you should solve your problems not beat
yourself up for having them number nine
they're more likely to have health
problems do you usually go to bed pretty
late well according to scientists this
is a sign of above-average intelligence
before you celebrate being a brainy
night owl you should know that this
lifestyle is known to lead to heart
disease it's also been found that
alcohol and tobacco abuse are more
common in people with highly developed
intelligence because of the high level
of anxiety they experience motivational
speaker writer and businessman Adam J
Jackson says it's good to learn how to
relax properly take a vacation take a
nap or just allocate time daily just for
doing nothing working out also does
wonders for your body and soul during
physical activity your body releases
happy hormones or endorphins which
greatly improve your mood number 10 they
feel more comfortable alone if being
alone were an art intelligent people
could be called great masters they can
even feel uncomfortable being around
their own friends and this is simply
because they're too focused on achieving
their goals and they usually choose
doing that over spending time with
people if you're a loner by choice
that's fine and all but you really
shouldn't isolate yourself from others
psychologists have proven that people
who make time for loved ones feel much
happier and satisfied with their lives
it's important to share your experiences
and joy it's the very process of
communication that's important so try to
balance the time you spend alone and the
moments you spend in someone's company
it'll make you feel better than you
think what's your opinion on this issue
does high intelligence only bring
problems or is it actually helpful tell
us in the comment section below
don't forget to share this video with
your friends and family to discuss the
topic together stay with us on the
bright side of life and we'll see you
soon
you